[Silence]
which is one of the beautiful things that we can do in our lives.
Of course, we have so many beautiful things we do, and we well do, and we are doing,
but among that, touching to our own treasure, our own heart, treasure is the most important.
It's standing very tall among all our activities.
It is also very powerful, things all the time, not just once in a while,
or a short time, but touching to our own heart, and developing good qualities with heart and mind.
According to the greatest teacher, Vodhachakkha Muni teaching,
it will continually bright up our lives and our destinations.
Not just only ours, but also for all the things too.
Some really, because of our bodhicitta motivation, our kindness, our understanding of what we got,
the wisdom, knowledge we received from the greatest teacher, Vodhachkha Muni, and all the lineage
masters.
We put that as much as touch or put in our heart, it is really so powerful, so beneficial.
It is rewarding, it is soothing, it is also healing, it is so powerful.
So therefore, again, it is a very beautiful situation.
For that reason, again, we are going to inspire ourselves with joy and appreciation,
and either those qualities, at the same time, bodhicitta, kindness, compassion, thought,
for all living beings without any boundaries and distractions.
And then trying to see all sorts of things, how everything is a beautiful state,
according to Vedayana teaching.
And that's because we have practiced Vedayana teaching.
Mostly us, we are practicing Vedayana teaching.
Vedayana teaching opens it, everything is enlightened state.
Not just that we are, I mean, it's true, I'm not just that.
But for that reason, we immediately visualize or be ourselves as different Buddhas,
known as visualizations.
That is our practice, that is the goal.
You have to become, not just become the deity Buddha, short time or well,
we have good concentration, we become the Buddha, and then we kind of fall back to where we are.
Now, no, we like to stay in that state exactly as it is.
That's the Buddha taught. Everyone is in that organ status.
So those all kind of good God, those taught, the motivation is really important,
and so, so necessary, important.
And with this, then again we go to the great Cheat Master.
W. Dunyurung which is teaching on this, that which is known as Heart and Wise, for the 14 months,
by His Holiness, W. Dunyurung which is, or W. Dunyurung which is.
And this is very short, of course we see, it's quite short,
but it is really touched to the core of the Davari practice that what Buddha taught.
Of course, in the Buddhism, there is a practice such as starting the Buddhism
as intellectual levels, levels, but this is not just an intellectual level,
it's observing the knowledge of what we learn into the heart and the mind to make better.
This is a very powerful instruction, something that we can touch and keep easily and improve.
So we are going that this through, through this we went and we are going through that
slowly by slowly, in a more, also kind of like in a way, meditating status.
Short time explanation or thought as a reminder of our practices, then practices.
This we are kind of alternating the teachings and practices,
and as part of the big goal as healing practices.
Healing practices, not just a healing for the what is happening situation now,
but healing for all the significant difficulty, troubles, upruled,
post-truth, noble truths, suffering truths, causal suffering truths.
That's the really we are doing these practices.
And then eliminating that or despairing that, that, that for that reason with these practices.
Now we are going to do this, as we mentioned, the whole practice can be summarized
as into three novels, beginning novel, middle novel, and concluding novels.
And the beginning novel is the motivations.
Again, the activated motivation, such as a foreign or secure thought,
technical ruffles, developing the bodhicata, and the very strong devotions.
That's kind of, devotion is talking of the practices.
Have that really kind of sibling quality of the devotions, combined together.
That means the whole is completely connected, not simply separated there,
but devotion is on the top.
And that we are going, we are going to inspire ourselves.
We are going to also see how precious is, how important is, how richness is.
Every aspect is richness and so precious.
Lineage is so precious.
Teaching is so precious.
Brother Dharma is so precious.
Our life is so precious.
Our situation, self-confidence, opportunity, whatever, is so precious.
The old pressures are gathered to us, bundled up, we are believing,
completely, for our own payroll, our own payroll, to better the fulfillment.
And we ignore that.
Then we are really going to lose.
We are going to lose.
I call it the greatest teacher, Buddha Kakyamala teaching.
We've been lost so many times, from the biggest time, until now.
But now we're bouncing back our own ground.
And we are recapturing our dominions.
We are turning back to our own sweet home, the home sweet homes.
To read that, that is what really is.
Motivation, all this so important.
Joy, precious and devotions and all that.
Devotions are not just kind of dogma or something, kind of like told dogma,
or kind of like high aqua, what they call it, high aqua rockies,
high aqua rockies.
It's not at all.
We see the value and the importance of every aspect.
That is really the devotions.
Every aspect, so precious, so sweetly, so beautiful.
We don't have to be more watery than to someone else.
We have each of us, we have that precious.
To ignite that, recognize that, acknowledge that, that is our responsibility.
Your responsibility and my responsibility.
Value in him.
Because of that, it's going to make the performance of what we are, our gain and blessings.
Our gain and desires, it really will make performance.
So, the one that will perform it, it will break in performance of all the six water members.
Actualizing body, that it will bring to actualizing.
Otherwise, actualizing will become almost a kind of lip service or mouth service.
Just saying that is not.
We are going to absorb that.
And we become more practical.
We have that other precious attitude and feelings.
We are going to do something more bigger and more important, more deeper meanings.
Then you are wasting our whole valuable time in the situation, the circumstances.
Something completely kind of like short, temporary, kind of bubble like benefits.
That is not.
It's not that smart.
So, therefore, all that motivation is so important.
With that, then actualizing body.
Actualizing body, then now we will talk about the six paramana practices.
As I said that earlier, and you all know, the entire teaching of the Buddha Dharma.
Buddha Dharma, when we come to the practice, is all can composite in the six paramatas.
Entire teaching of the Buddha.
Teaching.
Whether it is the Theravada teaching, whether it is the Sutramayana teaching,
whether it is the Dantramayana teaching, all that teaching concluded within the six paramatas.
Everything in the six paramana teaches.
So, this time we are going slowly by slowly of the six paramatas.
And after that they are trying to bring some kind of, as I said earlier, just now,
that we are doing practicing and also learning in a way.
Or in the teaching often said, studying and practice togetas.
Sade and practice togetas. That is what union, that's union.
We are doing this Sade and Duba or Prasad in practice for the healing purposes.
Healing purposes are now one of the difficult trouble of going in the Samsaru, in war.
We are going there.
But deep down we are doing this healing purposes for all to remove the suffering.
True and cause of suffering took every living beings.
That's what we are doing.
Wider views of the body tellers.
So now with that, among the six paramana, we went post to paramatas,
which is generously paramata and morality paramatas.
And now we are still going on the third paramata, which is the patient paramatas.
Patient paramata is so important, so powerful,
is so crucial in the samsara.
In the samsara, when we like to come out of samsara.
And the samsara has so many challenges, the difficult troubles that we know.
I don't have to talk.
I mean it's not something that happened because the Buddha said that, it's not.
The samsara has so many troubles.
Really challenges the difficult troubles.
We have to go jungle, jungles, ruins, jungles, ruins,
and all the, what's called, discursive or the obstacle courses.
One after another, like there are so many troubles.
Our precious life, precious time, precious situation is going through those canals,
through channels, through ruins, through passages.
Really good.
There are so many troubles.
Outly, inwardly.
Outly, all those so many things, I mean you all know.
In inwardly, talking about all these emotions.
This negative emotion is our own creations of the duality mind,
but it's always waiting us to attack.
They are like waiting as hyenas in the African jungles.
Or they can't groove, looks like they are naive, they can't do extremely that,
but they are very precious.
They really going to attack.
If you look, facing to those emotions of these hyenas,
they may be back up immediately and kind of goes back.
But as soon as we have lost the mindfulness and we destruct it, it come back.
Come back and attack.
That is really this samsara is just full of that we have to do.
Now we doing this patient practice because our group,
this negative emotion, fundamentally speaking, that.
Fundamentally or genuinely speak of that.
We like to uproot this this.
And therefore, then we have to be courageous.
We like to perform the six paramatas, like to perform them.
How important we generous this.
That teaching said we went through those, so important.
It's really so important.
And then the morality, so important.
The morality encompasses the entire teaching of the Buddha.
But our teachings, but we don't have the patient.
Even we did practice of the generous and the morality.
We are knocking down all our efforts.
All our, in a way, joyful walks.
We really smashing knocking down by our own self.
Therefore, patient is so important.
And that is, of course, we went through this.
Now I go over those.
I say, so I mention to you, and also you know,
I mean, it's not something I tell you, I say to you,
and then you know that or you knew.
That's an art case.
I'm telling you that because I'm reminding.
I'm reminding what I learned from my teachers
and as well as from the books.
And also you do so many teachings from many great masters,
and you read the books too.
So we all know this. It's not something that we don't know.
It's a kind of, we know it's all, it's kind of in the wake of our memories.
All is in our fire of the memories.
Today we are bringing up, trying to bring up this.
Because of the opportunity, because of the light of the His Holiness,
the universe, Ojabji, the universe, teaching.
To bring up that up.
So we talked about this, I'm with the sixth fire of the Mother,
the patient.
Already I said, so now I go to this patient.
Again, as in the teaching said,
the patient can be divided into three.
The first is, I already said, about three times.
Yesterday, or even yesterday, that patient can be,
not can be, it is divided into three.
The first one is, never mind, patient of the never mind.
That's what I'm translating.
I'm translating, otherwise in Tibet it is,
novrila jimanyam zopa, or lord of the zopa, lord of the zopa.
So I, so that means, again if I translate it literally,
trying to translate, that means patient those to the hum doors.
Patient to the hum doors.
That is what is the first one.
Second is, patient of the willingness to take the,
patient of the willingness to go challenges, or the troubles.
Or in other words, in the teaching also said,
chivsallala kapji zopas, patient for the dharma practices.
Patient for the practice of dharma.
That is chivsallala kapji zopas.
Third is, is sammi kona matapu zopa.
In it a bit.
I have translated it roughly into English.
Said, not scared, patient of not scared,
with profound meaning of the teachings.
Meaning of the teachings.
So those are the three divisions of the patients.
First is, is mostly related with it, on the surface.
First one is that challenge is on the surface, in a way.
There is surface of the, on the subject,
and surface that in object, and surface that in subject.
And object level is challenge that coming from outside.
Difficults are outside.
So this is out, object as object.
And challenge that coming from even, is our own emotions.
It's kind of interrupting.
Also not interrupt, opposite interrupt, but erupting.
It's erupting.
And erupting, bouncing up, bouncing up, and up.
So this is, there is challenge both out and in.
We need come the challenge of this.
And the teaching said,
the challenge is not just going to come by only through outside.
We think, oh that person is, that someone did obstacle,
or someone did this.
But there is no, what they call here, Zen Koyin, said,
there is no sound of the one, one, one palm,
or clapping one of one palm.
There is no sound.
It's true, there is no sound.
Two palms have clap or pull sound to come,
but one palm, there is no sound.
So there is not really welcome, only outside.
When it comes, what do you hear in western states?
50-50s.
Almost it's 50-50s.
And we like to pay, or we like to be reasonable there.
Maybe then 40-60s.
Or 65 and 35s.
That's just the way we are making compromise too much.
I don't know if we made that kind of voting, voting.
I don't know if we're going to win.
It's going to say, it's pay is 50-50.
50-50.
So that means, when we get upset in the emotion,
we become all that, that person did this, that kind of like,
almost we are blaming to that person, 100% the one trying to.
Realically, it's not, exactly.
Exactly really like that.
So therefore we have to be paid, paid.
This is the recording in the Buddha teaching,
he said, more kind of practical, analytically,
analytically, intellectually trying to bring more patient.
How we bring the patient, intellectually this.
Intellectually trying to bring, we compromise.
We're smart, we're educated.
We're knowledge, trying to compromise.
It's true, it's not making up things, it's not true.
It's true.
So we have to compromise.
Compromise that.
And so it's mostly 50-50 on that 60 parties.
And then now, and we follow with that reason of the party,
50 or 80 of the 60-some reason, and we clash with that.
Then what it becomes?
Again, think, intellectually, analytically think.
Then it really created troubles, as we went yesterday
and the day before, you know how.
Then it created big troubles.
On this ultrafast level, on all the levels it created troubles.
Troubles, it destroyed the hormones,
destroyed the peace, destroyed the apprenticeships,
destroyed so many things, one after another.
That destroyed.
Maybe those, for example, we say analytically, again,
we say 40 and 60 and 60, 60, 60, kind of like maybe, arrows.
But 10 percent, we overslept it and did, and actually we destroyed.
So that is not a wise, not a smart.
For small purposes, small gain of the short time, maybe,
and destroying the big things for long range.
That is not a walk of the smart.
That opposite of the smart, what's that called?
If I say the name, I don't know many people like that.
What's called Polish, no?
Polish.
Polish, oh, poor, poor.
I don't know which we are going to put to our name, to ourselves, or Polish.
Polish.
That is not a correct name, and they won't like that.
But the way they be like or not, they redo that.
Really, when we kind of play intellectually, analytically, everything,
we are making not smart choice.
And they deep down, according to the teaching.
Then we create the karma.
Big karma.
Heavy karma have to play.
Even the anger itself, what in the teaching said,
anger is the primary cause to go the three low ranks,
to take the bird in the three low ranks, particularly in hell ranks.
The anger is the primary cause of that.
Not just in the Greek state, but in the city.
Don't mention to get anger with the humanness or the someone,
but even you get anger with the piece of twit.
Twit of the firewood.
If you get anger, it is not wholesome.
It is unrighteous.
There is very little stories in the Buddha teaching.
I will tell that.
Tell that.
This is again, as we all heard in the teaching,
the Buddha went to the heaven to repay back to his mother.
Mother is kindness.
Because mother was passed away,
seven days after, right, the Buddha chakra man is birthed.
The prince is birthed.
She passed away.
When she passed away, she took the bird into the heavens.
So, you read when she born, she took the bird into the heavens.
Immediately, she had a will where she come from,
what situation that happened.
In the Buddha teaching, she said immediately,
those gods had the capability to see their previous lives and all things.
So, she see and she saw all everything.
And because she saw the Buddha,
in the teaching she said many times,
she are kind of supporting, helping, watching,
where the Buddha is meditating six years,
not in the real, not in the real universe.
All the time, she was helping and supporting.
So, anyway, when Buddha reached enlightenment and become old,
when he gave it to turning the will of dharma and all that,
in the one time, I made it short,
that Buddha went to the heaven and did three rainy season retreats
after she went to heaven.
And then Buddha stayed a little longer
than after the retreat in the heaven.
So, in the teaching, he said all the human disciples,
in the human world, and particularly in the shavastha area,
so many devotees are really Mr. Buddha,
and everyone started asking where is the Buddha,
and then he said the Buddha is meditating all up into the heaven.
So then one time, they came to the mongal putra,
who is also that who was in the shavastha, Jettavan Grove,
and he asked, "Please, Mongal putra is among all the Buddha's aharas,
or the disciples, he had the most power of these realizations,
or spiritual power, or the miraculous powers."
So they came to Mongal putra and asked,
"Please, won't you go to Buddha and tell to Buddha we miss so much,
and we heard you in Gharsevan,
but Gharse can come on this earth to visit us,
or we can go to the heaven to see the Buddha,
so therefore, think of us and please will return to this death."
And so, Mongal putra went immediately.
And the teaching said that youth has the healthy person.
Healthy person, youth has the person.
The moment they square the hand,
like arms square and bending, that duration of that,
Mongal putra can go the whole one time or three times,
the whole universe one time.
He can go in that moment.
So he has more speed light,
more power than the speed of light.
Light, that he can go, that moment.
So then, Mongal putra accepted the request of the devotees of the Yara Sata,
he went in to get to heaven.
And we appointed them, and Buddha said,
"Yes, I will come this day," and all that,
and they come back, Mongal putra come back immediately
and inform them.
So they're so excited.
So that's the, like, reception of what's called the anniversary
celebration of the Buddha descended from the heavens.
So when Buddha descended from the heavens,
there in the teaching said there is a very, very famous naga king,
king of naga.
Naga king is known as ejli yarpo eli dhamma, eli dhamma.
So king of the eli dhamma, naga king.
And he wanted me that he was,
this naga king, he's the king,
but yet, on the top of his head,
growing tree, top of his is growing tree.
Tree.
So he is disciple of Buddha too, he was.
So he like to come to see.
See.
But he don't like to come to see Buddha in his really poems,
his own poems.
He like to come to see Buddha,
he emanated or changed his poems like to come,
like to come and to see the Buddha.
Buddha.
So he changed his poem,
as magnification of the universe came,
can't vary tremendously for minutes.
So he came and back in for the reception of Buddha,
reception of Buddha from the heavens.
Heavens.
Everybody started looking who is this, who is this person.
They never know that.
They never know.
They never saw that.
They kind of, everybody was kind of talking that.
But anyway, so Buddha came.
Finally we Buddha came,
don't, and then, and everyone was joyfully received.
And there is another story there too.
Ahatopali.
It's Bhima Ahatopali.
And she also changed her role,
because she can change,
because she has made it as a power,
because she can change her poems
and different kind of take the poem,
like emanated poems she can take.
And she came, emanated poem.
Why she did?
Because it all, we Romans are always second person,
second kind of lines.
And Buddha comes again.
Of course we can be at the front row of the lines,
and we have to be second.
So today I'm going to change my poem
and receive Buddha immediately at first.
So she changed the poem and that.
So anyway, that's another story.
But anyway, so when that come,
and so everybody.
And then Buddha came and Buddha saw that,
they said, you know, walking, looking.
And Buddha welcomed him and he welcomed Buddha.
And the Buddha said,
why you don't come with your own poems?
Our greatest teacher, if I come my own poem,
no one will be happy with me,
instead they will be scared with me.
No, they won't be scared.
You should show your own poem.
That will help to the others.
Others.
Because that will help others.
So as the Buddha encouraged when he showed his early poems,
so then they see big tree is growing in the head
of the big kind of like serpent looking poems.
And Buddha said, look at this what?
They all say, how that happened?
Why is it happening like that?
And they all start, and Buddha said that.
Ancient time, second Buddha,
or third Buddha of the 14th Buddha,
the Kashyaba Buddha, Kashyaba times.
And there is one hungry demon
who is meditating on the jungles and the woods.
He's meditating on the woods.
One time he's coming to the city for some reason,
he's going to look,
and that his robes are caught by the twigs.
Twigs.
And he walks fast and he tells the robes.
The robes.
And he gets so upset with that tree, or that twig.
He cut it.
Because of that anger,
because that even he was born as the king of the Nagas yet,
that karma couldn't live because of that.
So that's the really teaching, that anger has no values.
Of course we won't see that immediately.
But consequence is so deep and so strong.
Therefore, again, then,
believing on the teachings,
believing on the karma,
believing on the cause and the effects,
and be mindful,
is the then practice of the debate.
And then another analytic way, thinking that.
And what the great Master Chanti Devas said in the teaching.
And so why you get upset with others?
And of course we say,
they are not he or she.
She hurt me.
That's why you get angry.
But then when you get sick, you're not getting angry.
When you get sick,
as I say, all yous,
and they say in the teaching,
whenever you say, when we get sick naturally,
or we get sick, we're not angry.
We try to solve the problem,
or cure the sicknesses,
not get angry.
Angry.
So that when you say, asking,
because when I get sick, I don't get angry,
I have no choice.
No choice, I get sicknesses.
But when the other person does something to you,
so you get that anger to that person,
but that other person's dream is not the primary cause.
What is the cause?
Their emotions.
We really like to challenge it,
like to be challenged or like to hurt.
You have to hurt the emotions, not the people.
People that have no choice
become as serving tools, as a little robot,
robot by the negative emotions.
The counter-mental cause of that,
what the other person did,
is negative emotions.
So then, what point?
You say that.
Feel compassion.
There is a sick,
sick of the negative emotions,
intoxicated by the negative emotions.
And therefore, that people are acting that.
And that's why Guru is doing that,
is creating negative karma.
That's what indeed is really getting anger,
feel compassion.
That's the reason I have to activate my compassion
and both each other,
or to benefit from this.
All the sick persons.
Sick persons.
Same way, when I get sick,
I'm not getting angry myself.
I like trying to cure the disease,
cure the cause of that disease,
trying to make it, whatever that is.
Same way, help to that with your love, your kindness.
And be able to do that with our mindfulness.
That is the supreme practices.
What great Master Chantideva said,
"There is no bad karma than anger.
There is no supreme virtue than patience."
Therefore, every means of the techniques
preserve the patient.
That's what really, I'm going to cross it a little roughly.
That works.
And we do that.
We are the bodhisattvas.
As for the day we were talking,
sattva were courageous ones.
Truly you are keeping up the identity of what you are.
The worship.
Or we are keeping up our warships.
What that will do?
That will please all the bodhisattvas,
and all the bodhisattvas.
Our located shortness,
menjushilis,
vedya phanis,
summon the bodhisattvas,
and sae yinpo.
Dabat namsara, nampo yinpo.
All those bodhisattvas and bodhisattvas are happy.
And they are doing clapping, clapping, greeting.
Really we are fulfilling a beautiful goal.
Truly we are lined up on the client of the warriors.
How wonderful.
How beautiful.
At the same time, we are putting up our naked videos.
Our own kana, naked videos.
We are accumulating the merits.
We are getting closer and closer to our own finite destinations.
Wow, wonderful.
Really, it's beautiful.
That is what is known as meditation practices.
So those are the analytic way to do that.
Then, more meditative,
we are absolutely level.
Where that anger is coming from,
where that anger is coming from,
it's not a perfect emptiness.
Really emptiness.
So all the tools we are teaching that you received,
from the Mademaka, from the Duktin or Mahamudra teachings,
immediately catch up by mindfulness, alakness.
Pray that, let it go, disappear.
And that is known as meditation practices.
Patient practices.
One patient practice again,
say this like, never mind,
or the patient for those who harm those.
Rules. Rules in the teachings is not disturbed.
Not disturbed.
And also, not returning.
So that means, not what we call,
normal language, what we call in samsara, revenge.
Not disturbed.
Not have the thought of revenge.
Not holding the ill thoughts at all.
That is good.
These three are known as the perfect college of the patient, never mind.
Then many a times in the teachings,
how we get upset or angry, many a times in the samsara,
oh, that's individually hurt me in the past.
And that's individually hurting me now.
That individual has planned to hurt me in the future.
That individually hurt my friend or my side in the past.
And again, present and planned future.
That individually has been so nice with my opponent's past
and also nice now.
And also, I'm sure that person will continue in the future.
Kind of having all those kind of different thoughts
of the analytic kind of circling in the illusory thought
of the duality mind of the ego-clinging and then anger's attitude.
Certainly that.
That is known as ill thought.
Not wholesome thought.
For if you started thinking those and get upset, angry,
that what it does in the teachings, it really will completely destroy
our constitutional body too.
It brings unhealthy.
I will spoil all the elements.
Our compilations become ugly, hazardous and can't sleep also, even.
It disturbs the sleeping.
And then you create a so vague karma, heavy karma for the future.
So all those things.
I mean, there's so many beautiful teachings.
You read the guide and ways of the lives of the bodhisattvas.
Really, really, just so beautiful, so practical.
And so smart.
Smart.
And also so compassion.
So loving-kindness.
So absolutely best for wellness
and those doing practice as we're discussing that.
That's the one.
Those are the practice of the forever.
And we don't have those this level each other in the teachings said about.
And they said, and we don't have even we have all the very kind of high teachings,
deep teachings of the Jyotin or Mahamudra or the other teachings
that it really won't work.
It won't work as what we thought it would like to be.
So therefore, what really must happen, we say that, as I said earlier,
I'm sure you also know too.
If you have one thing, it will be enough to lead enlightenment.
It's bodhicata.
And we don't have one thing, no matter how much you have.
You say, I have this and that.
That all become intellectual and just on the surface.
And not sinking, it's not going to get anywhere.
Therefore, that is what is bodhicata.
And for that reason, please be cherished and honored and keep bodhicata.
A score of our heart, those are the teachings said.
So that's what is so important.
And now, the second one is for this.
The first one, I spoke about the first one.
The second one is the patience for the practice of dharma
and the patience for the not scared with the profound meaning of dharma.
And so those two are, I will again continue to talk also.
I think it's taking time, but thank you again, thank you.
Thank you very much, everyone.
And your body's ready.
And thank you again.
Thank you for your passion.
Thank you.
www.mooji.org